Update component “progress-bars” (#322)
Zywave/booster: src/_areas/design-system/components/progress-bars.md

---
title: Progress bar
subtitle: A progress bar visually represents the progress of a task or loading
  process through a horizontal bar that fills up gradually.
api: https://cdn.zywave.com/@zywave/zui-progress@latest/dist/custom-elements.json
demo: https://cdn.zywave.com/@zywave/zui-progress@latest/docs/demo.html
mainComponentName: zui-progress
includedElements: []
---
## Usage

A progress bar informs users about the status of ongoing processes, the estimated time of how long a process will take, or if a request is being executed. 

> Use a progress bar for medium wait times (3–10 seconds) to display loading progress and engage users. For longer waits, over 10 seconds, provide clear interfaces with interactive elements, combining background tasks and storytelling to keep users engaged throughout the extended waiting period.

Reviewer: Do we have any examples to cite or list here for combining background tasks and storytelling?

See the [Design specs](https://xd.adobe.com/view/334e7f6d-d129-4f38-8d09-a0488d47ca76-661d/grid) for detailed sizing and spacing information

- - -

## Types

Progress bars come in two types: indeterminate and determinate. Knowing the difference between them is essential for selecting the right one in different situations.

#### Indeterminate

Indeterminate indicators express an unspecified amount of time. Use indeterminate indicators when the duration or progress of a process is unknown or variable. They reassure users that the system is working and prevent the perception of delays as errors or failures.

Indeterminate progress bars move along a fixed track continually until the process is complete.

![Progress bar Indeterminate indicators](/images/progress-bar_indeterminate_indicator.svg)

<br>

#### Determinate

Determinate indicators display how long a process will take, and how far it has progressed. Utilize determinate indicators when the duration or progress can be measured or estimated. They visually represent completed or remaining work, allowing users to gauge progress and manage expectations. 

> Determinate progress bars fill from 0 to 100%.

Reviewer: I wonder if the percentage and/or label should be mandatory or highly recommended for determinate progress bars? I think at least the percentage should be.

![Progress bar Determinate indicators](/images/progress-bar_determinate_indicator.svg)

- - -

## Behavior

#### Displaying a percentage

The percentage label updates in real-time to reflect the current progress. When the task is complete, the progress bar reaches 100%, indicating the task's successful execution.

![Progress bar display percentage](/images/progress-bar_percentage.svg)

<br>

#### Inform users

> Informing your users will make your users wait or else they may assume it is a bug and move on to other websites. Include a label with a progress bar to add context. Use simple, meaningful sentences for example “Linking your bank account” that inform users.

Reviewer: I think using a more typical Zywave example, such as "Loading your policies" for the example might come across as a little more relevant, although I do think "Linking your bank account" gets the point across.

![Progress bar inform users](/images/progress-bar_inform_users.svg)

<br>

#### Set expectations

> Ensure that the progress bar accurately reflects the actual time needed for the task to be completed. For example, If a file upload typically takes 20 seconds, the progress bar should fill accordingly, giving users an accurate sense of progress. Avoid progress bars that fill quickly and then stall, giving users a false sense of completion.

Reviewer: This would be more applicable to determinate than indeterminate, correct?

- - -

## Responsiveness

The progress bar should adapt to different screen sizes and orientations, maintaining its visibility and usability.

![Progress bar responsiveness](/images/progress-bar_responsiveness.svg)

- - -

## Best practices

#### Labeling

<docs-grid columns="2">

<div>

![Progress bar labeling best practice do](/images/progress-bar_label_do.svg)

<docs-do>

Accompany the progress bar with clear and concise messages that inform users about the task being performed.
</docs-do>

</div>

<div>

![Progress bar labeling best practice don't](/images/progress-bar_label_dont.svg)

<docs-do-not>

> Avoid using a progress bar without any accompanying information.

Reviewer: I think this should tie in or be reflected in the anatomy section. For example, since label and percentage are both optional, then that would result in only the bar indicator and track, which is what I believe you are recommending us not to do.

---
title: Progress bar
subtitle: A progress bar visually represents the progress of a task or loading
  process through a horizontal bar that fills up gradually.
api: https://cdn.zywave.com/@zywave/zui-progress@latest/dist/custom-elements.json
demo: https://cdn.zywave.com/@zywave/zui-progress@latest/docs/demo.html
mainComponentName: zui-progress
includedElements: []
---
## Usage

> A progress bar informs users about the status of ongoing processes, the estimated time of how long a process will take, or if a request is being executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Progress bar informs users about the status of ongoing processes, the estimated time of how long a process will take, or if a request is being executed. 
```

> Use a progress bar for medium wait times (3–10 seconds) to display loading progress and engage users. For longer waits, over 10 seconds, provide visuals such as a label or illustration indicating progress to keep users engaged throughout the extended waiting period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use a Progress bar for medium wait times (3–10 seconds) to display loading progress and engage users. For longer waits, over 10 seconds, provide visuals such as a label or illustration indicating progress to keep users engaged throughout the extended waiting period.
```

![Progress bar inform users](/images/progress-bar_inform_users.svg)

<br>

#### Set expectations

Ensure that the progress bar accurately reflects the actual time needed for the task to be completed in Determinate indicators. For example, If a file upload typically takes 20 seconds, the progress bar should fill accordingly, giving users an accurate sense of progress. Avoid progress bars that fill quickly and then stall, giving users a false sense of completion.

- - -

## Responsiveness

The progress bar should adapt to different screen sizes and orientations, maintaining its visibility and usability.

![Progress bar responsiveness](/images/progress-bar_responsiveness.svg)

- - -

## Best practices

#### Labeling

<docs-grid columns="2">

<div>

![Progress bar labeling best practice do](/images/progress-bar_label_do.svg)

<docs-do>

Accompany a Determinate progress bar with clear and concise messages that inform users about the task being performed.
</docs-do>

</div>

<div>

![Progress bar labeling best practice don't](/images/progress-bar_label_dont.svg)

<docs-do-not>

> Avoid using a Determinate progress bar without any accompanying information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid using a determinate Progress bar without any accompanying information.
```

</docs-do-not>

</div>

</docs-grid>

- - -

> ## Alternate Considerations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Alternate considerations
```

> * Use `Spinners` if the process takes less than 5 seconds to load and when space allows for a smaller loading indicator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use `Spinners` if the loading process takes less than 5 seconds or when the available space requires a smaller loading indicator.
```
